# Introduction to Maven

## Course Content

1. Introduction to Maven
2. Maven installation and setup
3. Understanding Maven POM file
4. Maven Dependencies
5. Maven Life Cycle and phases
6. Exploring Maven Repositories
7. Working with Maven Plugins
8. Maven Properties and Configuration
9. Maven and Test Automation
10. Maven Best Practices & Tips

## What is the significance of a build tool?

* Before we understand the basics of Maven, let’s go back a bit earlier and try to understand what is the significance of any build tool.
* A build tool is essential for the process of building.
* It is needed for the following processes:

  * Generating the source code
  * Generating documents from the source code
  * It even compiles the source code
  * Packaging the compiled code into JAR or ZIP files
  * Installing the packaged code into the local repository, server, or central repository

Let’s understand with an example:

```java
public class Sample {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello World");
    }
}
```

So here is a class called `Sample` using the `main` method to print **"Hello World"**.
We save this file as `Sample.java`. As Java is a compiled programming language, to execute this code first we use the command:

`javac Sample.java`

This will generate the `Sample.class` file which contains the bytecode. Then we use the Java executable and pass the class file:

`java Sample`

This internally executes the code and prints the output as expected.

## Project Object Model (POM)

* POM is a building block in Maven. It is an XML file that has all information regarding the project and configuration details.
* This file resides in the base directory of the project.
* When we execute a task, Maven searches for the POM in the current directory.

### What is Maven?

* In a literal sense, Maven means **accumulator of knowledge**.
* Maven is a build tool that helps in project management. The tool helps in building and documenting the project.
* Maven is written in Java and C# and is based on the Project Object Model (POM).

---